---
permalink: /
title: "Dr. Edward Minchin Jr.'s Profile"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Dr. Edward Minchin is currently Professor at the M.E. Rinker Sr. School of Construction Management at the University of Florida.  He regularly teaches a graduate course entitled “Methods for Graduate Research,” along with graduate and undergraduate courses in Heavy / Civil / Industrial Construction.  In a 34-year career, Dr. Minchin has worked as part of eight major areas of the construction process. <b> He has been a laborer, construction contractor, designer, inspector, construction owner, researcher, consultant, and adjudicator. </b>

After working as an estimator for a major highway construction contractor, Dr. Minchin joined the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) as a <b>designer</b>.  In that capacity, Dr. Minchin was involved in the design of highways, bridges and storm drainage systems.  He is registered as a Professional Engineer in the state of Florida and is Designer-of-Record for an earth dam in Okaloosa County, Florida and the county road that runs across the top of the dam. 

After leaving the design area, Dr. Minchin re-entered the construction area, working as a construction <b>inspector</b>, then Resident Construction Engineer, where he was in responsible control of all highway and bridge construction in a four-county area, overseeing a workforce of 35 construction inspectors and project managers.  This was the beginning of his time as an administrator, and he served as the <b>“owner”</b> of over 50 highway and bridge construction projects.  Moving from the field to FDOT’s Central Construction Office, he rose to the position of Chief Area Construction Engineer (today called the Assistant State Construction Engineer).  In this position, he initiated FDOT’s first Quality Assurance Program, participated in FDOT’s pioneering \\$50,000,000 Design-Build Pilot Study, served as a reviewer of FDOT’s first Design-Build project Request for Proposals, and was responsible for the authoring and overseeing annual updates to FDOT’s Construction Project Administration Manual, the book that FDOT used to administer their \\$600,000,000 (now \\$3billion-plus) annual transportation construction program.

As a <b>researcher</b>, Dr. Minchin’s areas of expertise and research interest include Construction Supply Chain Integrity (emphasis on counterfeit materials and products), Construction Project Delivery Methods, and Construction Contract Disputes Resolution.  He was recently awarded a University of Florida Research Foundation Professorship, an award bestowed on the Top 99 researchers at the university.  He has been part of several million dollars in research grants, most as Principal Investigator (PI).  He has presented keynote addresses to international conferences in China, Canada and Thailand, and has been part of almost \\$4.5 million in research grants in his 19 years as a professor, almost \\$3.0 million as PI.  In that time, he has authored over 130 published manuscripts and reports, including over 90 refereed publications (two books, over 35 refereed journal papers, seven book chapters, over 40 refereed proceedings and a magazine article).  Dr. Minchin’s career as a researcher has been characterized by a narrowing of his Areas of Specialization from the many and varied areas that he pursued early in his career, to the more specialized research that he does today.  After 14 years in industry, Dr. Minchin entered academia with several areas of interest.  The first few years in academia saw a further broadening of his areas of specialization as he was exposed to more and more interesting research possibilities.  However, the nearly 10 years spent at the Rinker School has seen Dr. Minchin’s reputation grow to the point that he can be more selective of the activities in which he gets involved, including the research that he pursues and the papers that he writes.  This has brought about a narrowing of his areas of specialization to include only those areas for which he has achieved the greatest repute.  Dr. Minchin now spends over 90% of his research and consulting effort on three academic areas: 1) Alternative Methods for Construction Project Delivery and Administration; 2) Construction Supply Chain Integrity and Security (with an emphasis on counterfeit construction commodities), and 3) Construction Contract Claims Avoidance and Dispute Resolution.  In the last seven years, Dr. Minchin has been invited to deliver four keynote speeches at construction management conferences in China, Canada, Panama and Thailand.  Also, Dr. Minchin was recognized for the Best Paper at the top international construction conference in Finland (topic: Alternative Methods for Construction Project Delivery).  

As a professor, Dr. Minchin has supervised (advised) 10 PhD students, graduating five.  Three have joined university faculties in China, Jordan and Korea, one of which is Civil Engineering Department Chair.  Two other graduated advisees are officially and properly credited to professors in the Civil and Coastal Engineering Department because the students graduated after Dr. Minchin transferred to the College of Design, Construction and Planning (DCP).  One additional student has only to complete his thesis to be awarded his PhD in Civil Engineering, and three others are current PhD students under Dr. Minchin in Construction Management.  Only one of the 10 has discontinued efforts to obtain a PhD.

Dr. Minchin is certified by the state of Florida as a Professional Engineer and the International Disputes Resolution Foundation as a Disputes Resolution Board Member and a separate certification as Chair. As an <b>adjudicator</b>, he has sat on Disputes Resolution Boards for 27 highway and bridge construction projects worth nearly \\$1Billion, 12 as Chair.

